README.md, before:

# Decentralized-Noise-Handling-in-Medical-Imaging

Noise in medical imaging is an inevitable challenge, often stemming from acquisition artifacts, varying imaging protocols, and external interference. While some studies suggest that noise can enhance model robustness, excessive or unstructured noise degrades training quality and classification performance. 

This issue is further exacerbated in **federated learning (FL)** settings, where individual clients have limited local data, making it difficult to train robust models independently. Federated imputation has been explored as a solution, yet existing methods do not fully leverage federated learning settings for optimal noise reconstruction. 

In this work, we introduce a novel **encoder-decoder-based federated imputation method**, designed to replace noisy images with more representative reconstructions before training. Experimental results demonstrate that classification models trained with images imputed by the proposed method consistently outperform those trained with raw noisy images and without noisy images, highlighting the importance of effective noise handling in federated-learning-based medical imaging.

This repository introduces a novel **Federated Imputation** method designed to handle noise in medical imaging within a decentralized learning environment.

## 📌 Motivation
Noise in medical imaging is an inevitable challenge caused by acquisition artifacts and varying protocols. In **Federated Learning (FL)**, this issue is exacerbated because:
- Individual clients have limited local data.
- Standard models struggle to maintain robustness independently.
- Existing imputation methods don't fully leverage the federated setting.

## 🚀 Key Contributions
- **Novel Federated Imputation:** An encoder-decoder based method to reconstruct representative images from noisy data.
- **Preprocessing over Removal:** Instead of discarding noisy images, our method replaces them with high-quality reconstructions before training.
- **Enhanced Performance:** Classification models trained with our imputed images consistently outperform those trained with raw or filtered datasets.

## 🏗 System Architecture
The proposed method utilizes an encoder-decoder framework specifically optimized for federated reconstruction tasks.

<img src="fig 1.PNG" alt="architecture" width="800">

## 📊 Experimental Results
Our research demonstrates that effective noise handling in federated learning significantly improves classification accuracy compared to:
1. Training with raw noisy images.
2. Training without noisy images (data removal).

## 🛠 Tech Stack
- Federated Learning Framework
- Deep Learning (Encoder-Decoder Architecture)
- Medical Imaging Data Processing

Commit message:

Add citation section to README
Added citation section to README for referencing the paper.

README.md, after:

# Decentralized-Noise-Handling-in-Medical-Imaging

Noise in medical imaging is an inevitable challenge, often stemming from acquisition artifacts, varying imaging protocols, and external interference. While some studies suggest that noise can enhance model robustness, excessive or unstructured noise degrades training quality and classification performance. 

This issue is further exacerbated in **federated learning (FL)** settings, where individual clients have limited local data, making it difficult to train robust models independently. Federated imputation has been explored as a solution, yet existing methods do not fully leverage federated learning settings for optimal noise reconstruction. 

In this work, we introduce a novel **encoder-decoder-based federated imputation method**, designed to replace noisy images with more representative reconstructions before training. Experimental results demonstrate that classification models trained with images imputed by the proposed method consistently outperform those trained with raw noisy images and without noisy images, highlighting the importance of effective noise handling in federated-learning-based medical imaging.

This repository introduces a novel **Federated Imputation** method designed to handle noise in medical imaging within a decentralized learning environment.

## 📌 Motivation
Noise in medical imaging is an inevitable challenge caused by acquisition artifacts and varying protocols. In **Federated Learning (FL)**, this issue is exacerbated because:
- Individual clients have limited local data.
- Standard models struggle to maintain robustness independently.
- Existing imputation methods don't fully leverage the federated setting.

## 🚀 Key Contributions
- **Novel Federated Imputation:** An encoder-decoder based method to reconstruct representative images from noisy data.
- **Preprocessing over Removal:** Instead of discarding noisy images, our method replaces them with high-quality reconstructions before training.
- **Enhanced Performance:** Classification models trained with our imputed images consistently outperform those trained with raw or filtered datasets.

## 🏗 System Architecture
The proposed method utilizes an encoder-decoder framework specifically optimized for federated reconstruction tasks.

## 📎 Citation
If you use this work, please cite the corresponding paper (to be added).

<img src="fig 1.PNG" alt="architecture" width="800">

## 📊 Experimental Results
Our research demonstrates that effective noise handling in federated learning significantly improves classification accuracy compared to:
1. Training with raw noisy images.
2. Training without noisy images (data removal).

## 🛠 Tech Stack
- Federated Learning Framework
- Deep Learning (Encoder-Decoder Architecture)
- Medical Imaging Data Processing
